# MEraEmu

MEraEmu (Modern Era Emulator) is an EraBasic script emulator for modern Windows.

> [!NOTE]
> This project is not meant as a replacement for Emuera([EM+EE](https://evilmask.gitlab.io/emuera.em.doc/index.html)), nor will it ever be (no full instructions set support, for instance). The intention is to provide alternative experiences that are not found in Emuera.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is WIP (work-in-progress), and while some games are able to boot into gameplay, do expect absence of functions, glitches and crashes. Expect its worst-case performance (with JIT enabled) to be ~4x worse than Emuera (on .NET 8).

## Getting Started

Try out the ~~[web version (TBD)](https://www.example.com)~~ without downloading, or head to the Releases page.

> [!WARNING]
>
> The web version will be slower, have fewer features, and come with limitations (such as 2GiB maximum memory). Prefer the native version where possible.

## Features

* Uses modern platform abilities to deliver beautiful and fluid UI experience with minimal interaction latency.
* Loads ~2x faster than Emuera, with significantly lower memory footprint. (It is possible to get up to 4x faster than Emuera by enabling the experimental Parallel Loading feature, at the price of higher memory usage.)
* Comparable performance with Emuera (twice as slow for average gameplay; requires enabling the experimental JIT feature).
* Compatible save format with Emuera. (For data safety, saves will be isolated from the ones generated by Emuera.)
* DevTools which eases script development, featuring:
  * Setting breakpoints to inspect code execution in real time.
  * ~~Edit code and see changes without restarting.~~
  * ~~Creating engine checkpoints to go back in time.~~

## Requirements

Web:

* Browsers with SIMD support (check out https://wasm-feature-detect.surma.technology/). Prefer the latest browsers for best performance.

~~Windows:~~

* ~~Windows 10 1903+.~~

## Building

See [docs/Building.md](docs/Building.md).
